# bacannot pipeline changelog

The tracking for changes started in v2.1

## v2.4.2

Changed how `tag` directives are used inside the pipeline. Now, instead of showing information about the process, it shows which sample is being processed, which is more useful to users.

> Nothing has changed in terms of how tools are called and used, thus the docker image still the same. In fact, patch/fix releases (x.x.x) will always use the docker from breaking/features release (x.x)

## v2.4.1

### hotfix

### hotfix

Super small fix to properly load YAML file when using the pipeline with cloud computing environments such as AWS/S3-bucket:

```bash
# from
parameter_yaml = new FileInputStream(new File(params.in_yaml))
# to
parameter_yaml = file(params.in_yaml).readLines().join("\n")
```

> Nothing has changed in terms of how tools are called and used, thus the docker image still the same. In fact, patch/fix releases (x.x.x) will always use the docker from breaking/features release (x.x)

## v2.4

This release marks the incrementation of the pipeline with two more modules:

1. A new module for the annotation of secondary metabolites with [antiSMASH](https://docs.antismash.secondarymetabolites.org/) has been added.
    + The modules runs only with antiSMASH core modules in order to keep it fast
    + This step can be skipped with `--skip_antismash`
2. A new plugin has been added to the Web (Shiny) App. [SequenceServer](https://sequenceserver.com/) has been implemented inside the app so that users can quickly execute and visualise blast alignments against the samples' genome, genes and proteins.

Also, a small fix was performed in the `run_jbrowse.sh` script. To add the antismash results and to properly check whether digIS results are available or not.

Finally, a small fix in the merge annotation process and SQLparser in the shiny app was also performed to include Resfinder as an option.

Because of that:

+ The `fmalmeida/bacannot:server` has been updated
+ A new image `fmalmeida/bacannot:antismash` is now available for antiSMASH module

## v2.3.2

1. There is a smal fix in the `update_database_image.sh` so it takes only the first two numbers of release tags.
2. Changed the pipeline to now accept the resfinder species panel "Other"
3. Fixed the Resfinder report to understand when only the pointfinder mutations are empty.

## v2.3.1

### Fix in main.nf

Fixed a very small problem that was holding up the execution of flye and unicycler when using the multi-samples workflow with the "samplesheet.yml". The scripts for unicycler and flye under multi-samples workflow was with an "if" statement in the wrong position.

## v2.3

* Dockerfile
    + The dockerfile structure has changed and its size reduced
    + started to track the main tools and databases with dockerfile release tags
    + Github actions wer set to update the main dockerfile containing the databases every month
    + Users can now easily update the databases in the docker image at any time
* New modules
    + A module for identification of top 10 closest Refseq genomes has been added with [RefSeq Masher](https://github.com/phac-nml/refseq_masher)
    + A module for focused detection of insertion sequences has been added with [digIS](https://github.com/janka2012/digIS)
    + A new report has been added to summarise the most general annotation results
* Small fixes
    + The image generated by the vfdb virulence report has been fixed
    + Examples of outputs have been added to the documentation
    + Barrnap is now properly outputting its version

## v2.2

* Automatic reports
    + Some problems with the automatic reports, such as not understanding missing or empty files, and conditionals between processes, have been addressed and fixed.
* VFDB database
    + VFDB database has been set again to use only the core (A) virulence gene dataset. The use of complete (B) dataset were returning lots of spurious hits.
* Resistance annotation
    + The Resfinder software and the ARGminer database have been added to the pipeline in order to augment the diversity of sources for resistance genes annotation.
* Prophage annotation
    + The PhiSpy software has been added to the pipeline to increase the diversity of sources for prophage sequences annotation. This software is complementary to Phigaro.
* KO annotation
    + KeggDecoder has been added to provide a quick and simple visualization of the KEGG Orthology (KO) annotation results.
* Plasmid annotation
    + The Platon software has been added to aid in the prediction of plasmid sequences, together with plasmidfinder.
* Custom annotation
    + The possibility to perform additional annotations using user's custom nucleotide gene databases has been added with the `--custom_db` parameter. The proper configuration of these databases are documented at: https://bacannot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/custom-db.html
* Multiple genome analysis
    + The possibility to perform the annotation of multiple genomes at once has been added with the `--in_yaml` parameter which takes as input a samplesheet file in YAML format as described in the documentation at: https://bacannot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/samplesheet.html
* Annotation from raw reads
    + The possibility to annotate genomes from raw reads have been added with the parameters `--sreads_single`, `--sreads_paired` and `--lreads` which takes as input raw sequencing reads from Illumina, Pacbio and ONT in FASTq format and uses it to assemble the genome with Unicycler or Flye (depending on the data availability) prior to the annotation step.
* Bacannot shiny server
    + A simple shiny server has been created and implemented with the `run_server.sh` bash script that loads the shiny app from a docker image that allows the user to quickly interrogate the annotation results via the JBrowse genome browser, the annotation reports and with a BLAST tool implemented in the server that enables users to quickly detect the presence of additional genes/sequences. Take a better look at: https://bacannot.readthedocs.io/en/latest/outputs.html

## v2.1

This versions have a few additions to the pipeline workflow, they are highlighted and explained below:

* nf-core schema
    + We have added a nextflow parameter schema in json that is compliant with nf-core. This enables that users trigger the graphical interface for configuration and execution of the pipeline via [nf-core launch](https://nf-co.re/launch) utility, also it is possible to track the pipeline execution with [nextflow tower](https://tower.nf/).

```bash
# It is triggered as
nf-core launch fmalmeida/bacannot
```

* plasmidfinder
    + _In silico_ plasmid detection has been added with Plasmidfinder. In order to not execute this parameter, users will need to use `--not_run_plasmid_search`. Otherwise, its thresholds can be configured with `--plasmids_minid` and `--plasmids_mincov`.
* VFDB database
    + VFDB database has been changed from the core (A) dataset to the complete (B) dataset. This dataset is first clustered with cd-hit using a 90% identity threshold and this new database file (after cd-hit) is used for the virulence gene annotation.
